---
title: "Retrospective for Sprint 0"
---

## About the meeting

|              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Date         | 2025-08-09                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Time         | 15:00-16:00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Participants | <ol><li>Jer칩nimo Acosta</li><li>Juan Sebasti치n J치come</li><li>Paula Llanos</li><li>Luis Torres</li></ol>                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Recording    | <https://eafit-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/lmtorresv_eafit_edu_co/EX4zdKNCuCpHnw0m4x8Qs-UBOvlRs8LDT_5Wp8ykR7da6g?e=wd0dTU&nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJTdHJlYW1XZWJBcHAiLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJTaGFyZURpYWxvZy1MaW5rIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXcifX0%3D> |

## Prompts

### What should we keep doing (best practices)?

1. Keep the wiki up-to-date with client and team meetings.

2. Meet with the client once or twice per week.

3. Maintain a single starting point for all other resources (Miro, Figma, etc.)

4. Create a GitHub project to assign tasks related to the sprint deliverables.

### What should we start doing (process improvements)?

1. Look into how OpenStack, Terraform, and OpenTofu work.

2. Communicate with the client via the WhatsApp group chat we have to keep them
   posted on recent developments and request his feedback.

3. Meeting every Saturday from 15 to 15:30/16.

### What should we stop doing (process problems and bottlenecks)?

1. Jer칩nimo and Luis are the only ones who have been uploading the images to the
   wiki, since one must clone the repo locally to do this properly, and it could
   potentially be a bottleneck when documenting for sprint 1.

2. Doing last minute changes to the presentation.

3. Not rehearsing the presentation.

4. Not getting enough input from everyone on each other's work.
